- everything is a prob dist
- minimize uncertainty
- sequencing processes to get close to "the right" answer with high confidence in few steps
- a stochastic process is a computation
- from a given state (dist/wvfn), generators describe how state changes
- generators are tangent space (lie algebra) elements exponentiated to change state
- dual to tangent space is cotangent space --> space of differential forms
  - tan vs cotan space :: efforts vs flows in port hamil :: func vs fnl in dual hilbert
  - inner product on primal vs dual yields scalar w different interpretation

- mapping a covector to each point on state space defines "optimal" vector
- agent receives observation o
- p(s|o)
- action is selected to explore and exploit, make progress and gather info
- free energy is minimized, i.e., a measure of how much productive energy there is
- evolution is the capacity to be a greater conduit of free energy, or action
- inductive search for computational architectures that find and extract free energy with minimal losses
- losses come from maintaining structure, movement for search, or processing for extraction, or any unused free energy
- what is the basis for capturing, transforming, projecting action? What are the structures, the processes?

most traits of intelligence are emergent. or maybe not. 
memory, reasoning, are probably not emergent. personality is. cognition is the process of finding a free energy minimizing computational architecture. 

update of each simplex is asynchronous. 
